Now, that we know who the users are that are coming to the site,
let's take a look at how they typically navigate through the site.
The user flow report helps with that, so let's take a look.
This is a very interesting report with a lot of
information about what users do on your site,
let's look at the basics and then you can play around with it yourself.
At a high level, you get a sense of what the user's typical entry point is to the site.
The most common, first interaction,
second interaction, third interaction,
and you could even get more information on interactions
that follow by clicking on the plus sign.
The interactions talked about here are really clicks, so let's take a look.
The report by default,
groups people by country they're coming from.
You can choose different ways to segment your audience.
So, you can look at the user flow by
browser version for instance or some other dimension you want to study.
For now, let's stick with the default.
You can look at the most common starting pages,
clearly in this case,
the most common starting page is the homepage.
For all the traffic that lands on the homepage,
there's a group of sessions where users exit.
This is where the red flow line indicates.
When I hover over the homepage block,
I learned that about 61,000 sessions started at the homepage and of those,
37,000 resulted in an exit.
Of the sessions that continue to a next interaction,
the most popular link clicked was the link to the t-shirt page,
over 3,000 of the sessions from the homepage.
When you click on this link,
you can highlight the path and see what the next most popular interaction was.
It looks like a group of sessions went back to the homepage,
others started a checkout process through the store,
and some sessions started browsing for other products.
You also see a block of sessions here that went
to other pages that are not specified here.
It's a large group of pages,
all receiving a small percentage of traffic.
Ultimately, it looks like some users continue to the checkout and all along,
I can see people exiting through the red flow lines we see throughout.
When I look at the first interaction,
I learned that for each product page,
the drop-offs hover around 20 percent.
However, it looks like some people end up on
the sign-up page and over 50 percent drops off there.
That's much higher than you might expect.
Let's check out what's really going on here by trying to mimic what the users do.
So, a user lands on the home page and then they click on the sign-up link.
Let's do it. So, this is the landing page I get.
I was shopping, not sure exactly why I'm signing up here or why I should sign in.
Yes, that may be confusing for the user experience and that could have
resulted in over 55 percent of the sessions dropping off here.
If I were managing the store,
I might want to look into this.
Do we really need to sign up link so prominently
features on the Google Merchandise Store page?
The flow report can help you recognize some of these flow issues.
It can reveal some of the barriers users encountered in flowing through your site,
and it's worth it to try to explore a bit more of what
these barriers are and whether you can avoid them altogether in your site.